1.can you tell me real time usages of trigers?

A trigger is a block of code that is executed automatically from a database statement. 
Triggers is generally executed for DML statements such as INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE. 
It is used to mention the execution time of the trigger.
It specifies whether the trigger should fire after or before the DML statement.
2.why wrapper classes in java and their useges real time?
A Wrapper class is a class whose object wraps or contains primitive data types. 
When we create an object to a wrapper class, it contains a field and in this field, 
we can store primitive data types. In other words, we can wrap
 a primitive value into a wrapper class object.

3.difference between String buffer and String builder?
StringBuffer	
1)	StringBuffer is synchronized i.e. thread safe. 
It means two threads can't call the 
methods of StringBuffer simultaneously.
2)StringBuilder is non-synchronized i.e. not thread safe. 
It means two threads can call the methods of StringBuilder simultaneously.
4)difference between list and set in collection framework in java
List	
1. The List is an ordered sequence.	
2. List allows duplicate elements
Set
1. The Set is an unordered sequence.
Set doesn't allow duplicate elements.

5)Checked and unchecked exceptions in java with examples
Checked exceptions are checked at compile-time. 
It means if a method is throwing a checked exception then it should handle the exception
 using try-catch block or it should declare the exception using throws keyword, otherwise the
 program will give a compilation error.
class Example {  
   public static void main(String args[]) 
   {
	FileInputStream fis = null;
	/*This constructor FileInputStream(File filename)
	 * throws FileNotFoundException which is a checked
	 * exception
         */
        fis = new FileInputStream("B:/myfile.txt"); 
	int k; 

	/* Method read() of FileInputStream class also throws 
	 * a checked exception: IOException
         */
	while(( k = fis.read() ) != -1) 
	{ 
		System.out.print((char)k); 
	} 

	/*The method close() closes the file input stream
	 * It throws IOException*/
	fis.close(); 	
   }
}

Unchecked exceptions are not checked at compile time. It means if your program is 
throwing an unchecked exception and even if you didn’t handle/declare that exception, 
the program won’t give a compilation error. Most of the times these exception occurs due to
 the bad data provided by user during the user-program interaction. It is up to the programmer to
 judge the conditions in advance, that can cause such exceptions and handle them appropriately.
 All Unchecked exceptions are direct sub classes of RuntimeException class.

class Example {  
   public static void main(String args[])
   {
	int num1=10;
	int num2=0;
	/*Since I'm dividing an integer with 0
	 * it should throw ArithmeticException
         */
	int res=num1/num2;
	System.out.println(res);
   }
}


difference between prepared statement and callablestatement in terms of security

1) Statement  –  Used to execute normal SQL queries.

2) PreparedStatement  –  Used to execute dynamic or parameterized SQL queries.

3) CallableStatement  –  Used to execute the stored procedures.

difference between jquery and javascript
Pure JavaScript can be faster for DOM selection/manipulation than 
jQuery as JavaScript is directly processed by the browser. 
jQuery has to be converted into JavaScript to make it run in a browser. 
All these can be done in JavaScript but we may have to write many lines of code

difference between let anad var in js
var		
Variables declared with var are in the function scope.	
let
Variables declared as let are in the block scope

diffrence between id selector and class selector example
Class	                                                   Id
We can attach multiple class selectors to an element.	We can attach only one ID selector to an element.
Syntax: .class{ // declarations of CSS }	Syntax: #id{ // declarations of CSS }


difference between procedure and fuction
Function	
	It calculates the result based on given inputs.	
	It can be called in a query.	
	It does not support try-catch blocks.	


Procedure
It performs certain tasks in order.
It cannot be called in a query.
It supports try-catch blocks.

what is usege of generisc java'
Java Generics is a set of related methods or a set of similar types. 
Generics allow types Integer, String, or even user-defined types to be passed as 
a parameter to classes, methods, or interfaces. Generics are mostly used by classes like HashSet or HashMap.
java-7

try-with resource
String in switch Statements
java 8
Lambda expressions,
Method references,
Functional interfaces,
Stream API,
Default methods,
Base64 Encode Decode,
Static methods in interface,
Optional class,
Collectors class,
ForEach() method,
Parallel array sorting,
Nashorn JavaScript Engine,
Parallel Array Sorting,
Type and Repating Annotations,
IO Enhancements,
Concurrency Enhancements,
JDBC Enhancements etc.

10.need of statement management
tate management is very important in application development. 
It centralizes all the states of various UI controls to handle data flow across the application.
 For example, consider you want to show a “welcome” message on the user's first-time visit but not
 on subsequent page visits, you need the state of the user

11.what is ioc container
An IoC container is a common characteristic of frameworks that implement IoC. 
In the Spring framework, the interface ApplicationContext represents the IoC container. 
The Spring container is responsible for instantiating, configuring and assembling objects known as beans, 
as well as managing their life cycles.


12. Jsp and Jstl tags?
The JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL) is a collection of useful JSP tags which 
encapsulates the core functionality common to many JSP applications. JSTL has support for common, 
structural tasks such as iteration and conditionals, tags for manipulating XML documents,
 internationalization tags, and SQL tags.

13.mvc representational?
Model–view–controller (usually known as MVC) is a software design pattern 
commonly used for developing user interfaces that divide the related program logic
 into three interconnected elements.

14.Module quolible in mvc


Html 5 and html 6
ntegration with Camera: Table of Contents. ...
Control Over Video Objects: ...
Guaranteed Libraries: ...
Flexible Image Sizing: ...
Pluggable Pre-Preprocessors and Pluggable Languages: ...
Organized Annotation: ...
Power Micro-Formats: ...
Auto Access to Contact Information:

some of the selectors in css
CSS Selectors
Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class)
Combinator selectors (select elements based on a specific relationship between them)
Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)

can we use jsp as controller
StudentServlet class will act as a Controller, and for the presentation layer, we'll create student-record. jsp page. 
This servlet is the controller of our web application. ... 
Finally, the Controller forwards the request and response objects to a JSP, the view of the application.

why spring is so popular advantages
Spring is one of the most popular open source framework for developing enterprise applications. It provides comprehensive infrastructure support 
for developing Java based applications. Spring also enables the developer to create high 
performing, reusable, easily testable and loose coupling enterprise Java application.


what is ioc in sping
Spring IoC is the mechanism to achieve loose-coupling between Objects dependencies.
 To achieve loose coupling and dynamic binding of the
 objects at runtime, objects dependencies are injected by other assembler objects. ...
 Spring IoC container provides us different ways to decouple the object dependencies

what is standalone spring application
Spring ApplicationContext is a central interface to provide configuration for an application. .
.. ClassPathXmlApplicationContext is an implementation of the ApplicationContext that loads 

configuration definition from an XML file, which is located on the classpath.

what is scope and spring bean
singleton

This scopes the bean definition to a single instance per Spring IoC container (default).

2	
prototype

This scopes a single bean definition to have any number of object instances.

3	
request

This scopes a bean definition to an HTTP request. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.

4	
session

This scopes a bean definition to an HTTP session. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.
5	
global-session

This scopes a bean definition to a global HTTP session. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.

why database normalization is forms
Normalization is the process of minimizing redundancy from a relation or set of relations.
 Redundancy in relation may cause insertion, deletion and updation anomalies.
 So, it helps to minimize the redundancy in relations. Normal forms are used to eliminate or reduce redundancy in database
 tables


aggregate function in sql
An aggregate function performs a calculation on a set of values, and returns a single value.
 Except for COUNT(*) , aggregate functions ignore null values.
 Aggregate functions are often used with the GROUP BY clause of the SELECT statement.


insql while returning data sequence of cluases

Six Operations to Order: SELECT, FROM, WHERE, GROUP BY, HAVING, and ORDER BY. By using examples, 
we will explain the execution order of the six most common operations or pieces in an SQL query. 
Because the database executes query components in a specific order, it's helpful for the developer to know this order.

what is pl sql teaching

PL/SQL is a block-structured language. 
The written programs in PL/SQL are logical blocks that can contain any number of nested sub-blocks.
 PL/SQL ensures logical processing of SQL statements by enhancing the data's safety, portability, and robustness.


syntax and clustering function in sql

You can access clustered tables with SQL statements just as you can ... 
to sort the rows of the cluster on this column before applying the hash function.

need of cursors in sql

The major function of a cursor is to retrieve data, one row at a time, from a result set,
 unlike the SQL commands which operate on all the rows in the result set at one time.
 Cursors are used when the user needs to update records in a singleton fashion or in a row by row manner, 
in a database table

What is transaction management in SQL?
Image result for transaction management in sql
It is a set of work (T-SQL statements) that are executed together such as a single unit in a 
specific logical order as a single unit. If statements are executed successfully then the transaction 
is complete and then it is committed that saves the data in the database permanently.

some of the sql  object qualilable
Some database objects are made up of parts that you can or must name, such as the columns in a table or view, index and table partitions and subpartitions, integrity constraints on a table, and objects that are stored within a package, including procedures and stored functions. This section provides:


